## 1.3. Understanding Package Declarations and Imports
Java puts classes in packages. These are logical groupings for classes.
The import statement tells the compiler which package to look in to find a class.

### 1.3.1. Wildcards
``` import java.util.*; // imports java.util.Random among other things ```
In this example, we imported java.util.Random and a pile of other classes. The * is a wildcard that matches all classes in the package. Every class in the java.util package is available to this program when Java compiles it. 
* You might think that including so many classes slows down your program, but it doesn’t. **The compiler figures out what’s actually needed**. Which approach you choose is personal preference. Listing the classes used makes the code easier to read, especially for new programmers. Using the wildcard can shorten the import list.

### 1.3.2. Redundant Imports
We’ve been referring to _System_ without an import and Java found it just fine. **There’s one special package in the Java world called java.lang**. This package is special in that it is automatically imported. You can still type this package in an import statement, but you don’t have to.
Another case of redundancy involves importing a class that is in the same package as the class importing it. Java automatically looks in the current package for other classes.

If we need to import _Files_ and _Paths_, There are two possible answers. The shorter one is to use a wildcard to import both at
the same time:

```import java.nio.file.*;```

The other answer is to import both classes explicitly:
```
import java.nio.file.Files;
import java.nio.file.Paths;
```

Now let’s consider some imports that **don’t work**:
```
import java.nio.*; // NO GOOD – a wildcard only matches
                    //class names, not "file.*Files"
import java.nio.*.*; // NO GOOD – you can only have one wildcard
                      //and it must be at the end
import java.nio.files.Paths.*; // NO GOOD – you cannot import methods
                                //only class names
 ```
 
 ### 1.3.3. Naming Conflicts
One of the reasons for using packages is so that class names don’t have to be unique across all of Java.
```
import java.util.*;
import java.sql.*; // DOES NOT COMPILE
```
When the class is found in multiple packages, Java gives you the compiler error:
```The type Date is ambiguous```

The solution:
```
import java.util.Date;
import java.sql.*;
```
Ah, now it works. If you explicitly import a class name, it takes precedence over any wildcards present.

Another error is:
```
import java.util.Date;
import java.sql.Date;
```
In compiling time show this error: 
``` The import java.sql.Date collides with another import statement ```

**If You Really Need to Use Two Classes with the Same Name** you can pick one to use in the import and use the other’s fully qualifi ed class name (the package name, a dot, and the class name) to specify that it’s special. For example:
```
import java.util.Date;
public class Conflicts {
 Date date;
 java.sql.Date sqlDate;
}
```
Or
```
public class Conflicts {
 java.util.Date date;
 java.sql.Date sqlDate;
}
```

 ### 1.3.4. Creating a New Package
Up to now, all the code we’ve written in this chapter has been in the default package. This is a special unnamed package that you should use only for throwaway code.
* The directory structure on your computer is related to the package name. 
```
C:\temp\packagea\ClassA.java
package packagea;
public class ClassA {
}

C:\temp\packageb\ClassB.java
package packageb;
import packagea.ClassA;
public class ClassB {
 public static void main(String[] args) {
   ClassA a;
   System.out.println("Got it");
 }
}
```
When you run a Java program, Java knows where to look for those package names. In this case, **running from C:\temp works** because both packagea and packageb are underneath it.

